Company name : Perfios

What happens when an user hits "www.clarify.com" how the request pass through the network ?? write a diagram and explain it to me

Explain amazon traffic architecture how it goes to private subnet? I write diagram and explained it

Do you use pipeline for three different env or one for all? Explain how?write a groovy script using any ci cd took for build, test and deploy stages.

Difference between cluster ip and node port?

How does a three tier architecture looks like? Compare it with two tier

What are ALB and NLB, and when should you use each one?

Write a shell script to sum (1..100) and give me result

Canary vs blue green

How to achieve zero downtime application upgrade?

Have you contributed any automation initiatives in your current company as a DevOps engineer?

Third round questions:

When you deploy from CI, you build a package and then need a platform to deploy the application. How do you build that platform, and if it requires human intervention, how do you eliminate that dependency?
In GitHub, after a code commit, what validations do you perform? Do you validate before the commit or after the commit?
Write a shell script that takes an integer N as input and prints numbers in a triangular pattern.
Each row should contain consecutive numbers, but printed in reverse order, and the number of elements in each row should increase by one.



Mind Tree 

How do you deploy python application on aws using jenkins pipeline
How do your day starts and what activities you perform
How do you upgrade your eks
How do you handle when pod dies
Your aws jenkins pipeline takes high time, how will you troubleshoot
Create manifest for 2 nginx replicas
Create a terrsform state file s3 bucket which expires within 30 days
How do you provide security in docker


Interview questions i got for round 1, 5 year DevOps experience-> 

Q1: lets say our app is nodejs app how wd u setup cicd pipeline
and which ci/cd tools would you use?
Q2: we are going to launch a website with many different products
running many services and is expected to get high load during black friday
how would u set up and make it highly available?
Q3: users are facing slownesss issue, what will u do to resolve?
Q4: now it is hosted and one of the services is leaking memory, how would you troubleshoot?
Q5: out of aws and azure what would u choose and why?
Q6: now the application is hosted and running, the billing is too much, the client asks you to
reduce the billing by doing the needful, what would you do to reduce billing?
Q7: diff b/w terraform, cloudformation and arm and what would u prefer?
Q8: How would you store secure info inside s3?
Q9: In lambda function, how would you handle failures and how would you set up retries?
Q10: Lets say we have already hosted and app, now some changes has been made
How would you redeploy this application with zero down time?

Interview questions for Kubernetes, Round - 1 (IBM) - Dec-2025

k8s node pending state how to debug
pod is pending state, due to disk issue, how to resolve
Have u done k8s cluster upgrade
u r unable to evict the pods from node, how to resolve
Tell me the flow of network packets starting from user hit the application url
Suppose during upgrade storage plugin had issue, unable to upgrade, what u will do ? (couldn't answer properly)
what is pullsecret in Openshift, there were 1 more but forgot
what is kubernetes operator? If I need to run a shell script before any container to start how can i do it using operator ?
how do u handle sev-1 issue
What is the extra component/service present in Managed k8s cluster in cloud


Nitor Infotech
Sr.Devops Engineer Round1

1.CI/CD setup in current project. How does the flow look like
2.Gitops approach, ArgoCD, Flux
3.Shared libraries in jenkins
4.How is caching implemented in jenkins in your project
5.Current jenkins version
6.How have you implemented parallelism in your pipelines
7.Statefulset, daemonset, Deployment
8.Networking in kubernetes, how have you implemented
9.Taints, tolerations, affinity
10.How would you reduce the runtime of pipeline, multi stage build
11.SCP
12.VPC Endpoint, IGW, Transit Gateway, Virtual Gateway
Need to provide user only EC2 start and stop access how would you do it
User has the role with policy to access S3 bucket, but it still not able to access what may be the reason
Terraform refresh command
How do you handle infrastructure code for multiple environments using terraform
State locking in terraform

Create a Deployment named web-app with:
Image: nginx:1.25
Replicas: 3
Container port: 80
Labels: app=web

19.Write a nodeport service to expose the application on port 8080 for the above deployment

20.Write a script to count how many processes are running under the user ubuntu.

How have you implemented RBAC in your EKS setup

ZS associates (Round 1)

If you are implementing HPA for statefulsets if new pod comes the pvc would be empty? How would it be able to serve the request?

When would prefer on-prem Kubernetes cluster over EKS and vice-versa

3.ECR

Kubernetes architecture in depth. Every component functioning. How would you join a new node to control plane?

Like kubelet is there any similar agent used to manage the control plane side of things?

When would you implement HPA and VPA. Give an example

Node selector, taints tolerations

Pod is in pending state. Reasons?

How would you implement security for Kubernetes(both on container side and the infra side using native Kubernetes solutions)

What is the controller used to manage the self managed worker nodes

What is karpenter. On which metric does it scale up and down?

EKS cluster upgrade entire process

Helm commands, how would you deploy an application via helm. How do you integrate this entire process via CI/CD

Project specific questions(How would you setup a new environment on AWS, Terraform code provisioning)

How many clusters are you managing currently, No of addons you have deployed

Why would you need an application to be deployed as stateful set

How are you provisioning infra using terraform via CI/CD
