Virtusa interview questions - tech lead position 

1. difference between deployement and replicaset and daoemonset and statefulset (what key words you will be writing over the, 
for ex : deployement.yml – rolling update, canary)

Ans. Deployment - Creates and manages ReplicaSets
                  Supports rolling updates & rollbacks
                  Ensures the desired number of Pods are running
ReplicaSet:
           A ReplicaSet ensures a specific number of Pod replicas are running at all times.
           What it does
               Keeps Pods running (recreates them if they crash)
                No deployment strategy (no rolling updates by itself)
DaemonSet
      What it is:
      A DaemonSet ensures one Pod runs on every node (or selected nodes).
      What it does
     Automatically adds Pods when new nodes join
      Removes Pods when nodes are removed

what is chart.yml file contains in K8

Ans. Chart.yaml describes what the Helm chart is, its version, and basic info so Helm knows how to install and manage it.
mychart/
 ├── Chart.yaml
 ├── values.yaml
 └── templates/

what files will be present in helm chart ?

Ans. Helm Chart Structure
     mychart/
├── Chart.yaml
├── values.yaml
├── charts/
├── templates/
│   ├── deployment.yaml
│   ├── service.yaml
│   ├── ingress.yaml
│   ├── _helpers.tpl
│   └── NOTES.txt
├── .helmignore

what you will declare in values.yml etc
 Ans. Application & Deployment Settings
      Service Configuration
      Ingress Configuration

what is node affinity and pod affinity  in K8 ?

Ans. Node Affinity:
     Node affinity lets you tell Kubernetes which nodes a Pod can or should run on, based on node labels.

    Pod Affinity:
    Pod affinity controls scheduling based on other Pods’ labels.

Node vs Pod Affinity (Comparison)
Based on	Node labels	Pod labels

what is taint and tolerations in K8 ?

Ans. What Is a Taint?
   A taint is applied to a node and tells Kubernetes:
  “Do NOT schedule Pods here unless they can tolerate this.”

  What Is a Toleration?
    A toleration is applied to a Pod and allows it to run on tainted nodes.

what is the terraform command for unlock statefile ?

Ans. terraform force-unlock <LOCK_ID>

 How to Get the LOCK_ID
When Terraform fails due to a lock, it shows an error like:
Error acquiring the state lock
Lock Info:
  ID:        12345678-abcd-efgh

what is module in terraform ?
Ans. In Terraform, a module is a reusable, self-contained collection of Terraform configuration files used to create and manage infrastructure.


suppose there are multiple ec2 instances manually created via console, I have to update those ec2 instances via terraform, what is the command ?


write python program for reverse a string
what is list and tuple in python

difference between entrypoint and cmd in docker ?
Ans.  entrypoint - Some default process will run
      cmd - Default linux coma=mand will run. 

what is the difference between copy and run command in docker

suppose you are having an ecs task definition, I have an website , the developer is hitting the url or website, what will be the flow of traffic , 
fargate is a serverless – how do you achieve configuration DNS or website over there
what is task definition in ecs

image is there docker, I want to build an image, deploy to docker hub, tag it - commands in docker please
am having some min max pods running, suppose on festival day traffic increases at that time I have to increase pods, when no traffic is there I have reduce the pods,
how will you achieve it in K8

difference between cloud formation and terraform
what is the difference between ecs and fargate

Five9 Interview questions (7 YOE)

How to find out second largest integer in an array
How to set a CPU and memory limit in Linux machine
TLS handshakes
Apart from storing TF log files in S3, do we have any other options
Different type of provisioners in TF
Diff b/w Local and remote provisioners in TF runners
Diff b/w user-data vs remote provisioner
AAA and CNAME in DNS
Fail over mechanism in DNS (if one IP is not reachable)
How logs are segregated in ELK
Apart from using password, how to login to EC2
