Sigmoid 2nd Round 

Terraform taint
How to limit the resource usage in K8s

Ans. First, I always define CPU and memory requests and limits for every container

Second, at the namespace level, I use LimitRanges to enforce default, minimum, 
and maximum values so teams can’t deploy pods without proper sizing.

Horizontal Pod Autoscaling, which scales replicas based on CPU, memory, or custom metrics. 
This keeps individual pods from being overloaded while maintaining performance

I use Vertical Pod Autoscaler to recommend or automatically adjust resource requests based on actual usage.


Asked me to write request and limit usage YAML file
Ans.
apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
  name: dev-quota
  namespace: dev
spec:
  hard:
    requests.cpu: "10"
    requests.memory: 20Gi
    limits.cpu: "20"
    limits.memory: 40Gi
    pods: "50"

Write a deployment file for the below requirement
*Create a Deployment named 'space-alien-welcome-message-generator' of image 'httpd:alpine' with one replica.
*It should've a ReadinessProbe which executes the command 'stat /tmp/ready' . This means once the file exists the Pod should be ready.
*The initialDelaySeconds should be 10 and periodSeconds should be 5

If Liveness probe is healthy and readiness probe is failing, what will happen ?

Ans. Since liveness is healthy, Kubernetes assumes the container is alive.
     The container is NOT restarted.

Because readiness is failing, the pod is marked NotReady.
Kubernetes removes the pod from Service endpoints.
The pod stops receiving traffic from:
Services
Ingress
Load balancers

How will you find out the data loss while switching back to DBs

Have you integrated Global LB with K8s cluster

Ans. A Global Load Balancer (GLB) sits in front of EKS/AKS
GLB routes traffic based on health, latency, geo, or failover rules

How to enable RBAC to Service accounts ?

Ans. “RBAC for service accounts is enabled by creating a Role or ClusterRole with required permissions and binding 
it to the service account using a RoleBinding or 
ClusterRoleBinding, then attaching that service account to the pod.”

You created a resource through Terraform but it failed during provision, what will happen ?

Ans. Terraform stops execution at the failed resource.
Dependent resources will not be created.
Resource is not added to the state file.

“If Terraform fails during resource creation, it stops execution. The resource may not be added to state 
if creation failed, but if it failed during provisioning, the resource may exist partially, causing drift. 
I verify actual infrastructure, reconcile state if needed, fix the issue, and re-apply.”

Purpose of using "null resource" in Terraform ?

Ans. What is null_resource?
     A placeholder resource that doesn’t create anything in the provider.
        Used mainly to:
        Execute scripts 
        Run commands
        Trigger actions based on changes

If some developer hardcoded password mistakenly in source code and pushed to repo, how to fix it in CI process ?

If terraform deployment got failed, what will be the approach ?

Ans. When a Terraform deployment fails, I first identify whether the resource was not created, 
partially created, or created outside state. I reconcile the real infrastructure with Terraform state using plan, import, 
or re-apply, fix the root cause, and then rerun apply. Long-term, I prevent failures by avoiding provisioners, 
using remote state with locking, and enforcing plan-before-apply in CI/CD.”

Write a script to capture the failures

Metrics used for monitoring
Disk space 
Disk write
CPU Utilization
uptime

I monitor infrastructure metrics like CPU and memory, Kubernetes metrics at node and pod level, 
application golden signals—latency, traffic, errors, and saturation—along with reliability, database, 
CI/CD, and security metrics to get full end-to-end visibility.”


Sigmoid 

If LB is created in us-south and that region is down what will happen ?
If RDS is hosted in us-west region and has read replicas spread across other region, due to some issue us-west region is down, how will you redirect your traffic. But having one more DB is expensive to the client
Which deployment strategy is best, assuming that you have only one POD is running
If you're going with Blue Green deployment, how will you change your configuration to reroute the traffic between blue and green, exactly which configuration needs to changed?
New web deployment was done today, how will you make sure that particular application is behaving and we need to find out the issues before user's figures out
Practical difficulties in having the infra in two different regions
Write a shell script to delete the log files which is older than 30 days
Failover mechanism in LB
Is it possible to have ASG and LB in different regions ?
How to create sub user while writing Docker file
Creating custom images
How to enable Debug logs in Terraform
Create system design for three tier architecture with secuirty and avalability in place.
Create a python script for this requirement

