AWS Interview Questions for DevOps Learner's !! ⭐



This set is particularly useful for those with 0–2 years of experience in DevOps.

 
Tell me about yourself.
Can you Explain Lambda ?
What is Auto scaling groups ?
What are the different storage classes in S3?
How does S3 ensure data durability?
Difference between IAM role and user.
What is VPC and what are the components of VPC
Difference between Public and Private Subnet.
How would you design a highly available web-app in AWS ?
You need to migrate a large On premises database to AWS. What should you do ?
EC2 instances cannot connect to the internet. What could be the reason?
Explain Horizontal and Vertical Scaling.
How do you secure data at-rest and in-transit in AWS?
Can you Explain about Cloud Formation?
Can you Explain Secret manager in AWS?
How can you implement MFA in AWS?
How does S3 Encryption work?
Explain VPC - Peering.
Can you explain the Logic Volume Manager(LVM) in Linux?
Explain Grep command in Linux?
Explain Network Commands in Linux?
How do you manage System Services in Linux ?
Explain Disk usage in Linux?
In AWS, if the storage is full, How will you extend the storage?
In the AWS EC2 instance, i need to increase the size 8GB to 16 GB. How would you do that ?
Explain Replica set in Kubernetes?
Explain Etcd in Kubernetes?
How does Kubernetes handle networking?
How do you monitor Kubernetes Cluster ?
What is Daemon set in Kubernetes?
Difference between Daemon set and statefulset?
How do you troubleshoot pod in Kubernetes?

.what are the disadvantages of each deployment models in k8s
In k8s architecture which component is not running as pod
3.k8s QOS (quality of service)
4.disadvantage of using ebs volumes in eks
5.Any reason why we cannot place our app pods in master node by default 
6.requests and limits in k8s 
7.How will u ensure docker container security while writing docker file
8.how many clusters u have in ur project and how many pods in nodes 
9.what version of k8s u used and did u perform any cluster upgrade
10.how you switch between clusters tell me the command
11.what is context in k8s
Etcd is sql or no sql database and reason
13.init container and sidecar container
14.liveness and readiness probes
15.what is OOM and how to resolve OOM issue
16.linux - hardlink vs softlink
17.linux-  Cronjob
AWS secret manager vs parameter store
19.docker run command -p represents port or publish
20.linux is OS or kernel
21.linux file hierarchy
Other ways to connect EC2 without pem key
Horizontal and vertical scaling RDS db steps
24.Db RDS multiavailability vs read replicas
25.how to delete old/untaged images in ECR
Types of variables in linux
27.linux - kill vs kill -9 and total number of signals in linux
How to check linux process without use of ps or top command
