Deloitte DevOps Interview Questions– ©Copied! Round 1 – Technical Screening & Troubleshooting

 Target Roles: DevOps Engineer, SRE, Cloud Engineer

Describe a situation where you had to troubleshoot a technical issue under a tight deadline. What methodology did you follow?

Ans. During a production deployment, our application suddenly started returning 5xx errors for users. 
This happened close to a business-critical release window, 
and the issue had to be resolved within minutes to avoid customer impact.

My task was to idenfify the root cause quickly:
Steps:
Immediately checked monitoring dashboards (CPU, memory, error rate, latency).
Put the deployment on hold to prevent further impact.
Checked application and container logs.
Verified health checks and dependencies (DB, cache, external APIs).

Issue Observed:
Found a misconfigured environment variable introduced during deployment, causing the service to fail on startup.
Confirmed by replicating the issue in a staging pod.

Solution:
Rolled back to the previous stable version using the CI/CD rollback mechanism.
Verified that error rates dropped to zero and traffic normalized.

Scenario: “Your CI build fails with ‘dependency not found.’ Outline your investigation steps.”

You notice intermittent 502 errors during canary deployment. How will you identify the root cause?

CI/CD pipeline takes 40+ minutes. What optimizations would you apply?

System Design & Architecture

Design a highly available logging/monitoring system for 100+ microservices across 3 regions.

How would you implement secure secret rotation (e.g., in Azure DevOps pipelines)?

Your production AKS cluster is failing health checks randomly — how do you debug?

Ans. Identify what health check is failing:
Clarify whether it’s:
Azure Load Balancer / Application Gateway / Ingress
Kubernetes readiness probe
Liveness probe
Node health (NotReady)
AKS control-plane signal

kubectl get pods -A
kubectl describe pod <pod>
kubectl get nodes
kubectl describe node <node>

Are failures pod-specific, node-specific, or zone-specific?

“I debug random AKS health-check failures by first stabilizing traffic, identifying which health signal is failing, 
correlating failures with nodes, pods, and time, checking probes, resource pressure, node health, and networking. 
I fix probe tuning, scaling, or infra issues, validate recovery, and add monitoring to prevent recurrence.”

Explain a rollback plan for a Kubernetes deployment using Terraform.

Ans. For Kubernetes deployments managed with Terraform, I perform fast rollbacks using Helm or Kubernetes rollout undo, 
then align Terraform state by reverting code or variables and reapplying. Infrastructure rollbacks are handled 
by reverting Terraform code in Git. 
I rely on canary/blue-green deployments and remote state locking to ensure safe, repeatable rollbacks.”

How do you handle zero-downtime schema migrations for a stateful database?

Design a cost-efficient nightly-reporting pipeline with 3-year log retention.

Incident Response & On-the-Spot Thinking

An Azure function is being throttled. How do you detect and mitigate it?

You receive intermittent DNS resolution failures in cloud infra—what could be wrong?

Ans. Intermittent DNS resolution failures in cloud infrastructure are usually caused by capacity,
networking, caching, or configuration issues rather than a single hard failure.

Reason: Too many DNS queries from apps

A critical end-user reports 10 sec latency spikes periodically — how do you root cause it?

One pod shows high CPU usage without logs—what's your next step?

Artifact uploads from Jenkins randomly fail—which layers do you investigate?


Managerial & Behavioral

Tell me about a time you resolved a production incident with stakeholder pressure.

How do you prioritize when critical alerts pop up during an ongoing release?

Describe conflict resolution when working with distributed Dev and Ops teams.

Have you ever decided not to automate something? Explain your trade-offs.

Ans. I chose not to automate a rare, high-risk production database schema change that:
Occurred once or twice a year
Required business sign-off and careful validation
Had irreversible impact if done incorrectly

What drives you to continue learning in cloud-native technologies?

company --Amadeus Labs
Exp-5yr SRE

How to fix pod-level autoscaling not happening, what will be your approach .

When pod autoscaling doesn’t work, I first check HPA status and events, then verify metrics availability and resource requests. 
Most issues come from missing metrics-server or missing CPU requests. I validate HPA targets, workload compatibility, cluster capacity, 
and autoscaler behavior. 
Finally, I simulate load to confirm scaling and add monitoring to prevent recurrence.”

HPA (Horizontal Pod Autoscaler) is a Kubernetes feature that automatically scales the number of pod replicas 
for a workload based on observed metrics, 
ensuring performance while optimizing cost.

HPA:
Increases pods when load is high
Decreases pods when load is low
Works automatically without manual intervention

suppose we have application configured with hpa where it was running fine but suddenly it is not running what will be your approach?

Ans. Check HPA status:
kubectl get hpa <hpa-name>
kubectl describe hpa <hpa-name>

Verify metrics Availability

“I first check HPA status, events, and metrics availability. I verify pod resource requests, 
HPA target configuration, and cluster capacity. I inspect controller and Metrics Server logs, 
simulate load to validate scaling, and apply corrective actions such as fixing metrics, requests, or scaling node pools. Finally, 
I monitor the system to prevent recurrence.”

How to access application if Ingress is configured but not accessible to end users, how you will resolve ?

Ans.
INGRESS:
An Ingress is a Kubernetes resource that defines rules for routing external HTTP/HTTPS traffic to services inside the cluster.

What is an Ingress Controller?
An Ingress Controller is a pod/service running in the cluster.

Popular Ingress Controllers:
NGINX Ingress Controller
Traefik
HAProxy Ingress
AWS ALB Ingress Controller
Istio Gateway (service mesh ingress)

How Kubernetes handles service discovery can you explain .

How to ensure all five application teams don't use more than a particular amount of space?

Leap second in Linux

what type of autmation you have done in k8

Ans.
In Kubernetes, I’ve automated CI/CD deployments using Helm and GitOps, autoscaling with HPA/VPA, 
infrastructure provisioning via Terraform, monitoring/alerts with Prometheus and Grafana, 
secrets/config updates through ConfigMaps and Vault, and DR/backups. 
I also automated routine cluster maintenance to improve reliability and reduce manual effort.”

Tell what type of aumatation you have done that saved time in your project .

Ans. “By automating deployments, scaling, monitoring, and config management, 
I reduced repetitive manual tasks by ~60–70%, improved system reliability, 
and freed up the team to focus on feature development.”

11 . Can pod be scheduled if have below security constent .
  securityContext:
    runAsNonRoot: true
    runAsUser: 0
