
Recently i have been interviewed for the role of Devops Engineer in Wipro and below are the questions which are being asked.

Could you elaborate your experience with automating and optimizing the deployment over large infrastructure using AWS and other tools like Terraform and Ansible from your previous roles?
How about your experience developing CI/CD pipeline and utilizing tools such as Docker, Grafana and Prometheous. Share a particular project where these skills were critical.
When dealing with multi tenant applications, how do you enforce tenant isolation at the API layer?
If clients reporting 504 Gateway Timeout errors. describe your approach to debugging the issue?
how would you implement optimistic locking a RESTful update endpoint to avoid lost updates?
if you were required to run pre-task checks, main tasks and post-task validation for patch automation, how would you structure your RedHat Automation & Virtulization scripts?
7.Can you describe an approach to automating secure decommissioning of VMs, including data shredding.
8.If you were required to maintain clarity in very large Ansible Inventories, what best practices should be followed when naming groups and hosts. 
Describe the structure and advantage of using an Ansible role to manage a three-tier web application. what do you mean by three-tier web application?
if you have custom plugins that multiple roles depends on, how do you manage them in the context of Ansible Roles Management?

What is Cloud-agnostic strategies? how do you leverage conditionals to make a role cloud-agnostic, particularly for environments like AWS, Azure and GCP. 
How do you mitigate the risk of misscommunication when there are multi-lingual stakeholders involved in email threads?
How would you structure a multi-stage pipeline that builds, tests and deploys a containerized application to kubernetes using Github Actions.
How would you parameterize a workflow so that downstream jobs know which environment to deploy to?
15.Describe the security implications of using Kubernetes secret in etcd without encryption? 
How does Python's GIL affect multi-threaded web service performance and what alternatives exist to overcome it? what is Python's GIL affect multi-threaded web service?
How would you implement feature toggles in Deployment pipelines?
How would you schedule a task to run every 15 minutes in windows using powershell and linux with cron?

If you have a monolith application and need to convert it to microservices, what prerequisites would you ask from the development and tech teams before starting the work?
When designing a microservices-oriented infrastructure, what technologies and components (like load balancer, service mesh, Kubernetes) would you bring in, and how would you design the estate?
When you have many services in a service mesh, how do you decide the number of control planes and data planes needed?
What security measures and policies should be put in place when using a service mesh?
Since some features of service mesh are also available through other tools, is it worth adding the burden of installing Istio service mesh into the estate?
How do you handle the service discovery phase when moving from a monolith to microservices?
If you have a Kubernetes cluster with pods running, but when you hit the URL you get HTTP errors (403, 404, 503), what would be your troubleshooting steps?
In your 4-year career, what is the biggest achievement you are most satisfied with?
Do career achievements always need to be big and complex, or can they also be simple improvements?
Is a service mesh always needed, or are alternative tools sometimes enough?
