
How do you display the last 10 lines of a large log file without opening it fully?
In Kubernetes, how would you configure your deployment to double CPU allocation once usage crosses 70%?
Can you write a basic Dockerfile for your application?
What top-level security risks from OWASP do you usually check for?
How do you configure Prometheus and Grafana for monitoring?
If you have an on-prem application, how would you migrate and deploy it in a cloud-native environment?
Can you explain Docker Compose and how it helps in multi-container application deployments?

LTIMindtree Interview Question:
Role:- Azure Devops Engineer
1st Round: Ibot
What branching strategies have you used in projects and how they work?
Write a PowerShell script to perform a backup from a server.
Have you used Azure Boards in your project? How did you integrate it with Azure Pipelines to show build/deployment details?
After deployment, if the production environment is not responding, how do you troubleshoot? Explain step by step.
How do you perform security scans in your Azure Pipelines?
Explain the different stages involved in your deployment pipeline.
What is the difference between Service Connection and Service Principal?

2nd Round: L1 
How do you manage repetitive tasks in your Azure Pipelines for build and deployment?
What are the different deployment strategies followed in Azure Pipelines?
For a Java application code, what command would you use in your Dockerfile ENTRYPOINT?
What is Tiller in Helm?
Why is the Library used in Azure Pipelines?
What are Service Hooks in Azure DevOps?
What is the difference between template and extends in Azure Pipeline YAML?
What is Sentinel in Terraform?

3rd Round: L2
Explain the Helm workflow (from adding a repo to installing a chart).
What are Managed Identities in Azure and how do you configure them?
How do you configure pre-deployment and on-failure tasks in Azure Pipelines?
What command is used to log in to a Kubernetes cluster?
What is the null operator in Python?
Write a Python script to print the Fibonacci series?
