How does the product URL work in an e-commerce website?
How does the request route to a specific microservice, like /clothes?
How many worker nodes do you use and how do you manage scaling?
How do deployments happen in EKS and how do you manage your clusters and microservices?
How does Jenkins authenticate to AWS when running Terraform?
What are Terraform provisioners and when do we use them?
What are Terraform meta-arguments?
What are dynamic blocks in Terraform?
What are the different Kubernetes service types?
How do you configure Kubernetes health checks for pods?
What is the difference between ADD and COPY in Docker?
When do you use CMD vs ENTRYPOINT in Docker?
How do you explain your entire e-commerce project setup?
What server sizes and instance types are used in your project?
Why do we need autoscaling for both nodes and pods?
How do you handle Helm charts?

Python program to check a prime no
Shell script to append some data into existing file
How can we run ansible playbook in background
Write terraform code to provision an EC2 instance
Readiness/Liveness probe
HPA/VPA. Which is preferred and why. Use case
How can you ensure only one particular pod runs on one node
Taints and tolerations
Static pod in Kubernetes
Set resource constraints at namespace level
Node scaling, ASG scaling
Swap memory in Linux
$? Meaning
chmod permissions
EBS, EFS, S3(latency, cost, usecase)
Vpc peering and nat gateway
Lambda function running in public subnet. It should connect to S3 over private internet
Serverless services provided by AWS and their use case
Provisioners and their use case
Workspaces and modules
How did you setup remote backend and state locking
Life cycle blocks
Manually changed a resource what will happen
Data blocks in terraform
User requirement is to divert traffic in Mumbai region only. How will you achieve?
How will you List out all the open ports

Lloyds Interview questions 

While upgrading if we issue with related to PDB how can it be managed

Write a docker compose application for a application involving entire backend and frontend

While upgrading kubernetes cluster how do you take care of SLA

How can you do the migration of monolithic application to kubernetes cluster

What is APM and monitoring tool. Is Grafana a APM tool

How can you make the application HA in kubernetes 

Write a shell script which generates a report in pdf/image for a cluster health check. It has 3-4 clusters. 8-10 node pools. And 20 nodes. Generate a report

Difference between Add and Copy command

How would you manage networking and access part for Kubernetes 

Difference between continuous delivery and continuous deployment 

Node affinity 

Standard change and normal change


