client - Intact green services
exp < 5 yrs
What is desired state and in-desired state?
How do you deploy an application in Kubernetes?
Have you faced any memory issue in Jenkins pipeline? how would you troubleshoot
There are 2 VPCs A & B. Give me options so that A communicate to B and vice versa. Also, option where only A has to communicate to B.
2 Instances are created using terraform. Statefile is located locally and also in remote backend(S3). If a user deletes 1 instance what would happen? How would you handle this?
There is issue with docker image due to its size, what are the action plans from you to reduce the size.
What are the tools you have used for CI/CD pipeline?
Can we use POD as an agent? What are the drawbacks if we do so?
Type of services in Kubernetes, give their use case
What are the different type of Jenkins pipeline?
What are the advantages of multibranch pipeline?
You are unable to push docker image to dockerhub due to access issue. What are the sources where you can push your docker image other than dockerhub?

Explain the high availability architecture for Monolith application
If you are deploying it in multiple regions how will you do it ?
If you segregate the tech stack and deployed in multiple regions how will you ensure data from database are in sync in all deployed regions?
Difference between daemon set and replica set?
What are way to providing access to s3 bucket other then giving IAM access?
If you have multiple teams are using Kubernetes with respective namespaces, how will you make that they have access to only specific namespaces
If you are deploying application in eks from CD then how will you attach the eks cluster information to CD/pipeline.

Kubernetes Questions I experienced in DevOps interviews in last month
1) Why is it that master nodes are 3,5,7 in number - why odd numbers only
1.1) If One master node is taken down for upgrade - how can 2 master nodes manage the cluster
2) Procedure for doing an upgrade on a master node and worker node
3) what happens if etcd is corrupted ? best practices for etcd backup.
